Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.
Although many languages share similarities, each has its own syntax. Type of programming languages are Java, Phyton, C etc.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
The Java development kit is composed of:
     - Java Runtime Environment (JRE): It combines the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), platform core classes and supporting libraries.
     - An interpreter/loader (java) : program which translates statements of a program into machine code.
     - A compiler (javac)
     - An archiver (jar)
     - A documentation generator (javadoc)
     - Other tools needed in Java development

What is IDE?
Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Some are Eclipse, IntelliJ, IDEA, Eclipse, and NetBeans.



Explain the entire java life cycle.
- Any text editor can be used to create the high-level Java text file.
- File is saved as a .java file on the disk.
- Compile this text file using the Java compiler
- .class file being created on the disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes.
- file is loaded into memory by the class loader.
- bytecode verifier confirms bytecodes are valid and not hostile.
- JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translates them into machine code.

what is class? Class is a blue of an object. It is basically the design to create objects.

What is object? Object is an instance of class.

What is the entry point of an application? It is the main method.

Why main is static? Main is static because it is first thing running by JVM,
 before any objects are made.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?lang. Object class is the super base class of all Java classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path refers to system while classpath refers to the develop environment.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Interface has no defined methods only declare while abstract  class that can have abstract methods and define methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it?
No we can not, these two classes used to declare and define methods.

what is Access Specifier?
Access specifier is keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members
its works as security.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP is Object oriented programming. It includes Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and polymorphism.
Inheritence  is when a child class has access to the properties of its parent class .Polymorphism is method overloading and and method overriding.
Encapsulation is data hiding or data binding. Abstraction is implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces. java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API is Application Programming Interface, we used so far java API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Java does not support the multiple inheritance it does supports multi interfaces.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is a part of polymorphism. It when methods are of the same name and have different signatures.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is errors when run our code and we can use try and catch to run it.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
The static keyword in java is used for memory management mainly.The static keyword belongs to the class than instance of the class variable.
method can be called without creating objects.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final is java keyword that makes variables and methods not changeable.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is an entity definer. Finally is a block to access some block as the closing one.
Finalize is a package called by the garbage collector on an object.

What is a constructor?
Constructor is a block of code called when an instance of object created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes there can multiple constructors.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?The default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java? This is a keyword that refers to the reference variable.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use? Super is keyword that calls the variables, constructor or methods from the child class to parent class.

What is JVM stand for? Java virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent? Yes its across many platforms.

What version of java are you using?
Java 1.8.0172

What is JAR stand for?
It stands for java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JVM is the machine while JDK is the whole java program.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is the container, JVM is the content.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is the when we write the code and the run time is when we read the code.

What is heap?
The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
By collecting garbage once object are not in need anymore.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String once assigned can not be changed. StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object .

What is Singleton class?
A class that can be used once and object created once

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
When the object won't be serialized during serialization.The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream
for any instance of that class. A transient variable is a variable that can not be serialized

Difference between while and do..while loop?
In while loop the condition is checked first, in do while the code executes and then check the condition.

What is Enum?
Enum is a data type consisting of a set of named values called elements, members, enumeral, or enumerators of the type.

What is Iterator?
An iterator is an object that enables a programmer to traverse a container, particularly lists.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
It should be the same.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool.
Another reason of why String class is immutable could die due to HashMap.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructors in Java. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one garbage collector thread for the garbage collector operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple garbage collection threads for the garbage collection operation.

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
 Garbage collection is the process of freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation of new objects.Java objects reside in an area called the heap.
The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
 During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No wecan tdo that.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it. Stack memory only contains
local primitive variables and reference variables to objects in heap space.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Java Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, interfaces, fields and methods at runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods and it is useful because it supports dynamic retrieval of information about classes and data structures by name, and allows for their manipulation within an executing Java program.

what is multithreading in java?
AMultithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. A thread is a lightweight sub-process, the smallest unit of processing.


What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple threads in Java.

What is Framework?
Frameworks are large bodies of pre-written code to which you add your own code to solve a problem in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Unit, JWalk, Mockito, TestNG, JwebUnit, TagUnit, HTMLUnit, Arquillian,The Grinder


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?

        javax.jason.jar
        mongo-java-driver-3.4.0.jar
        mysql-connector-java-8.0.13.jar
        testng-6.8.7.jar

what is dependency injection in java?
When dependency injection is used, a Java class can be tested in isolation.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding in Java occurs during compile time
while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.








